Welcome to the last
video of the week.
You're going to see what
the datasets would look
like for a Siamese network.
I'll show you how you can
train your model and then
you can use that model to
test your Siamese network.
Let's take a look at
how you can do this.
You'll be using the Quora
question duplicate datasets for
this week's programming
assignments
and it looks like this.
It consists of a collection of
question pairs within is
duplicates Boolean
for each question.
For example, for question
1 and question 2,
what is your age,
and how old are you?
Is_duplicate equals true because
these two questions
are duplicates?
Where are you from
and where are you
going are not duplicates,
so it's false and so on.
These datasets gives your model
plenty of examples
to learn from.
First, you will process
the dataset so that
it looks like this.
You will preprocess the data
into batches of size b.
The corresponding questions from
each batch are duplicates.
For example, the first
question in Batch 1,
what is your age,
is a duplicate of
the first question in
Batch 2. How old are you?
The second question
in Batch 1 is
a duplicate of the second
question in Batch 2 and so on.
Note, however, that there are
no duplicates within
an individual batch.
If I call this q1_a
and this q2_a,
then q1_a and q2_a
are duplicates.
If this was q1_b
and this was q2_b,
then q1_b and q2_b
are duplicates.
However, q1_a and q1_b
are not duplicates.
Similarly, q2_a and q2_b
I'll show you how to
prepare the batches in
such a way that no question
within the same
batch is duplicated.
Finally, you'll use
these inputs to get outputs
vectors for each batch.
Then you can calculate
the cosine similarity between
each pair of outputs vectors.
This is the Siamese
model that you'll
be implementing in
the assignments.
You'll create a subnetwork,
which is then duplicated,
and drawn in parallel.
In each subnetwork,
you get the embedding,
run it through the LSTM,
take your vector outputs,
and then use them to find
the cosine similarity.
An important note here is that
the learned parameters of
the subnetworks are exactly
the same between the
two subnetworks.
You are actually only training
one set of weights, not two.
When testing the model,
you will perform
one-shot learning.
The goal is to find
a similarity score between
two inputs questions.
First, convert each input
into an array of numbers,
feed these into your model,
compare the subnetwork
outputs v_1 and
v_2 using cosine similarity
for a similarity score.
Then test the score
against some threshold Tau
and if the cosine similarity
is greater than Tau,
then the questions are
classified as duplicates.
Note that both Tau and
the margin Alpha from
the loss function are
tunable hyperparameters.
Congratulations.
You now know how to train
your Siamese network and
you know how to test it.
In this week's
programming exercise,
you'll be using a
Siamese network to
identify whether a question
is a duplicate or not.
Specifically, you'll be using
the Quora question
duplicate datasets,
and using that you'll be
able to get a very
good accuracy.